docs: adding document for servers' security (#2231)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/concepts/asyncapi-document/server-security.md

---
title: Server Security 
weight: 200
---

Server security refers to the measures and practices implemented to protect servers from unauthorized access, data breaches, and other security threats. Server security involves implementing various security mechanisms to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of server resources.

In the context of AsyncAPI, securing servers ensures secure exchange of messages between clients and servers. While also protecting sensitive data, preventing unauthorized access, and maintaining the overall security of the API or server.

You can secure a server by using the `security` property where you define or declare which security schemes can be used with the server in context. Each `server` in the AsyncAPI document can have one or more security schemes declared. A security scheme defines a security requirement that must be satisfied to authorize an operation such as a API key or username and password. 

Here is a example of adding security to your server:
```yml

> asyncapi: '3.0.0'

Reviewer: it is definitely not enough to just change version to 3.0 and have a valid document

- there is no longer `url` on server but `host`
- security is defined in different way now, look at 3.0 example https://github.com/asyncapi/spec/blob/next-major-spec/examples/streetlights-kafka.yml

please validate your documentation with https://studio.asyncapi.com/ before submitting for review

Author: Made the required changes to the example using the reference provided. Thankyou :)

info:
  title: My AsyncAPI
  version: '1.0.0'
servers:
  production:
    url: api.example.com
    protocol: amqp
    security:
      - saslScram: []
      - certs: []
components:
  securitySchemes:
    saslScram:
      type: scramSha256
      description: Provide your username and password for SASL/SCRAM authentication
    certs:
      type: X509
      description: Download the certificate files from service provider
```

Here is a illustration of securing servers: 
```mermaid
graph LR

>   A[asyncapi: '3.0.0'] --> B[info]

Reviewer: the approach for the diagram is not consistent with other diagrams from other 3.0 docs, like even yours about tags

- colors do not match
- you provide some additional components, not related, like info, but not sure why and also not as an individual components but as `title, version`

what do you want to represent with this diagram, what is its goal in this document - you need to answer these questions to yourself 😄

Author: Simplified and added a straight forward diagram now which is also consistent with the other docs and color scheme. Does this work well or do I need me to make any further changes ?

---

> title: Server Security 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Server security 
```

weight: 200
---

Server security refers to the measures and practices implemented to protect servers from unauthorized access, data breaches, and other security threats. Server security involves implementing various security mechanisms to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of server resources.

In the context of AsyncAPI, securing servers ensures secure exchange of messages between clients and servers. While also protecting sensitive data, preventing unauthorized access, and maintaining the overall security of the API or server.

> You can describe how is your server secured with `security` property where you define which security schemes can be used with the server in context. Each `server` in the AsyncAPI document can have one or more security schemes declared. A security scheme defines a security requirement that must be satisfied to authorize an operation, such as a API key or username and password. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can describe how your server is secured with the `security` property where you define which security schemes can be used with the server in context. Each `server` in the AsyncAPI document can have one or more security schemes declared. A security scheme defines a security requirement that must be satisfied to authorize an operation, such as an API key or a username and password. 
```

> Here is a example of adding security to your server that shows that different server can have different security mechanisms:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of adding security to your server, demonstrating that different servers can employ various security mechanisms:
```

```yml
asyncapi: 3.0.0
info:
  title: Streetlights Kafka API
  version: 1.0.0
servers:
  scram-connections:
    host: 'test.mykafkacluster.org:18092'
    protocol: kafka-secure
    description: Test broker secured with scramSha256
    security:
      - $ref: '#/components/securitySchemes/saslScram'
  mtls-connections:
    host: 'test.mykafkacluster.org:28092'
    protocol: kafka-secure
    description: Test broker secured with X509
    security:
      - $ref: '#/components/securitySchemes/certs'
components:
  securitySchemes:
    saslScram:
      type: scramSha256
      description: Provide your username and password for SASL/SCRAM authentication
    certs:
      type: X509
      description: Download the certificate files from service provider
```

> Here is a illustration of securing servers: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an illustration of securing servers: 
```

```mermaid
graph LR
  C[servers]
  F[host]
  I[protocol]
  E[security]
  C --> F
  C --> E
  C --> I
  style C fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000;
  style E fill:#47BCEE,stroke:#000
```

Here are some of the security schemes that AsyncAPI supports:
- User/Password
  ```yml
  type: userPassword
  ```

- API key (either as a user or as a password)
  ```yml
  type: apiKey
  in: user
  ```

- X.509 certificate
  ```yml
  type: X509
  ```

- End-to-end encryption (either symmetric or asymmetric)
  ```yml
  type: symmetricEncryption
  ```

- HTTP authentication
  ```yml
  type: http
  scheme: basic
  ```

- HTTP API key
  ```yml
  type: httpApiKey
  name: api_key
  in: header
  ```

- JWT Bearer
  ```yml
  type: http
  scheme: bearer
  bearerFormat: JWT
  ```

- Implicit oauth2
  ```yml
  type: oauth2
  flows:
    implicit:
      authorizationUrl: https://example.com/api/oauth/dialog
      availableScopes:
        write:pets: modify pets in your account
        read:pets: read your pets
  scopes:
    - 'write:pets'
  ```

- SASL (Simple Authentication and Security Layer) as defined in RFC4422
  ```yml
  type: scramSha512
  ```

> Although, the `security` property is not mandatory to be implemented, it is a good practise to always secure your server(s) in production. Similarly, having multiple security schemes declared does not necessarily mean that the server is more secure, it really depends on other factors such as the protocol used, use case, business perspective and more. Additionally, you can also [add security on the `operation` level](securing-operations)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Although the `security` property is not mandatory, it is a good practice to always secure your server(s) in production. Similarly, having multiple security schemes declared does not necessarily mean that the server is more secure; it depends on other factors such as the protocol used, use case, business perspective, and more. Additionally, you can also [add security at the `operation` level](securing-operations).
```
